= Walkable Compute =

'''Walkable compute''' is a Noisebridge working group / field-notes project for mobile, wearable, mostly low-desk computing rigs.

The current focus is mundane computing while standing, pacing, or walking: text editing, terminal work, reading, note-taking, messaging, lightweight development, demos, and collaborative use.

== Current status ==

We are in the '''field-report phase''': documenting what people are trying, what fails, what seems promising, and what dependencies matter.

This page is not yet an authoritative buyer’s guide. Treat it as a living compatibility guide.

== Design goals ==

* Use off-the-shelf parts where possible.
* Prefer hardware that can run free or self-sovereign software stacks.
* Keep each component substitutable: display, compute, hub, keyboard, battery, cables, mounting, and optional projection should be separately testable.
* Optimize for actual daily use: comfort, robustness, repairability, battery life, and social legibility.
* Record failures. Especially record failures. USB-C is a crime scene with marketing copy.

== Core rig shape ==

A typical experimental rig has:

# XR glasses or wearable display, mostly used as a plain display.
# Mobile compute, ideally a phone or pocket device running Linux, postmarketOS, Mobile NixOS, NixOS-derived setups, or another self-sovereign stack.
# A USB-C hub or adapter that can pass display signal, power, and input correctly.
# Split keyboard halves mounted near the hips, hanging from a belt, attached to clothing, or otherwise reachable while arms hang naturally.
# Battery pack and video-capable cables.
# Mechanical strain relief so expensive parts are not being supported by tiny USB-C ports.
# Optional projector or shared display path for socially casting a screen to nearby collaborators.

== Dependency chain ==

The most important compatibility chain is:

 compute device → USB-C / DP Alt Mode → hub or adapter → XR glasses
 battery / charger → USB-C PD input → hub → compute and/or glasses
 keyboard → Bluetooth or USB → compute
 compute device / hub → projector → nearby shared surface

A rig is only “known-good” when the whole chain works together.

A device having USB-C does '''not''' imply that it supports display output. A cable being USB-C does '''not''' imply that it carries video. A hub having many ports does '''not''' imply that it can pass display while also accepting auxiliary power and input.

== Buyer guide categories ==

=== XR glasses / wearable displays ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Device family !! Status !! Notes
|-
| XREAL-style display glasses || Candidate || Test text readability, DP requirements, fit/IPD, prescription path, social ambiguity, and whether 3DoF helps.
|-
| VITURE-style display glasses || Candidate || Test adapter behavior, app dependency, Linux compatibility, and productivity use.
|-
| Rokid / similar display glasses || Candidate || Needs field reports. Watch for app dependency and whether Linux display-only use is clean.
|-
| Older HDMI monocular displays || Historical / maybe useful || Lower FOV, sometimes socially clearer; useful comparison baseline.
|}

=== Mobile compute ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Device !! Status !! Notes
|-
| Android phone with display output || Practical baseline || Less sovereign, often better hardware. Useful as a known-good display/hub test source.
|-
| PinePhone / PinePhone Pro || Candidate || Good freedom story; verify performance, display behavior, and daily usability.
|-
| OnePlus 6 / 6T mobile Linux ports || Candidate || Interesting Mobile NixOS / postmarketOS target. Needs current field reports.
|-
| Steam Deck / handheld PC || Baseline / heavy || Useful for testing glasses, hubs, keyboards, and power paths.
|}

=== USB-C hubs / adapters ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Adapter class !! Status !! Notes
|-
| First-party XR charging adapters || Candidate || Often best chance for glasses + charging. May not expose keyboard/data. Test exact behavior.
|-
| Gaming handheld XR hubs || Candidate || Often designed for Steam Deck / ROG Ally / Switch-like power/display use. Test Linux phone behavior separately.
|-
| Generic USB4 / Thunderbolt hubs || Candidate || Potentially powerful, often bulky or power-hungry. Many do not expose the exact topology needed.
|-
| HDMI-only hubs || Usually not enough || May work only if the glasses can accept HDMI through an active adapter path.
|-
| DisplayLink docks || Avoid for core path || Software-driven USB graphics is separate from native DP Alt Mode. Maybe experiment, not default.
|}

=== Split keyboard / input ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Keyboard type !! Status !! Notes
|-
| Ergodox / open-hardware split keyboards || Candidate || Large but hackable; good precedent.
|-
| Corne / low-profile split keyboards || Candidate || Smaller, easier to mount; fewer keys means keymap discipline.
|-
| Choc-spaced custom halves || Candidate || Probably best long-term, more build work.
|-
| One-handed chorded input || Research || Interesting, but higher learning curve.
|-
| Touchpad / trackball add-on || Needed || Pointer input is adoption-critical.
|}

=== Projectors / socially cast displays ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Projector class !! Status !! Notes
|-
| Pocket projector || Candidate || Useful for demos and pairing. Test brightness, battery, fan noise, input, and focus.
|-
| Wearable chest/shoulder projector || Research || Could make screen socially visible; risks glare, aim instability, and weirdness.
|-
| Clip-on short-throw projector || Candidate || Interesting for wall/table projection. Mounting may be hard.
|-
| External shared screen || Baseline || Not walking-native, but useful for demos and debugging.
|}

== Required hardware report fields ==

* Product name and exact model / revision.
* Category.
* Approximate cost.
* Availability: in stock, backordered, used-only, discontinued, regional, unknown.
* Purchase/source links.
* Required integration points.
* Nice-to-haves.
* Known incompatibilities.
* What was actually tested.
* Who tested it and when.
* Open questions.

== Known-good rig table ==

Add only rigs that someone has actually used.

{| class="wikitable"
! Rig name !! Tester !! Date !! Compute !! OS !! Display !! Hub !! Keyboard !! Battery !! Status !! Notes
|-
| Example: Android baseline || TODO || TODO || TODO || Android || TODO || TODO || TODO || TODO || Untested template || Establish a known-good display/hub/input baseline before debugging Linux.
|}

== Failed / weird tests ==

This table is important. Do not delete failure reports just because they are embarrassing.

{| class="wikitable"
! Date !! Tester !! Component !! Failure mode !! Reproducible? !! Workaround !! Notes
|-
| TODO || TODO || USB-C hub || Glasses detected only without auxiliary power || TODO || TODO || TODO
|-
| TODO || TODO || Cable || Charges but no display || TODO || Replace with video-capable cable || TODO
|}

== Social norms ==

Walkable compute creates attention ambiguity. The wearer owns that ambiguity.

Default norms:

* No surprise recording.
* No surprise transcription.
* If hardware has a camera, microphone, or outward-facing sensor, disclose it plainly.
* If someone is not already opted into the experiment, assume they may interpret gaze-obscuring hardware as socially weird or surveillance-adjacent.
* When starting a conversation with someone outside the group, prefer lifting, disabling, removing, or clearly explaining the display.
* Do not make stealth the group’s social default. Stealth can be an ergonomic or aesthetic experiment; it should not be a consent hack.
* Prefer visible status conventions: display up, display down, display off, or a badge/sticker saying “display only / no camera / no recording” when true.
* Treat Noisebridge as a place to prototype openly, not to surprise-cyborg people.

== Open questions ==

* Which current XR glasses are best for boring text work?
* Which mobile Linux devices can reliably output display?
* Which hubs support video pass-through, auxiliary power, and input at the same time?
* Can a hip-mounted keyboard become socially normal enough for daily use?
* What is the least-weird attention/status protocol?
* Can a small projector reduce social ambiguity by making the screen shareable?
* How much of this should be standardized as a kit?
* What is the first rig a new participant can try without spending too much money?

== Repo ==

https://github.com/mcint/walking-compute-field-guide

[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Hardware]]
[[Category:Accessibility]]
[[Category:Mobile Linux]]
